Promised Land
Permit a group of religious exiles to settle in your realm
			You can either wait for this event to pop randomly while playing anywhere in Asia, or use the "Invite Religious Exiles" decision. Can easily be combined with any run of reasonable length from the achievements below.

Stamp of Approval
Starting as a character that has not passed any Exam, pass an Exam in China
	Passed an exam	Passed an exam	Create a custom landless character at age 16 with the Erudite Oracle trait and high Learning. Immediately begin a Children's Examination, and you should easily pass. Trivially combined with Flying Colors, Confucian Scholar, Upper-upper, and Grand Governor in the same run.

Yes I need, I need my Samurai
Adopt Sōryō government as a Ritsuryō
		Changed government from Ritsuryō to Sōryō	This decision is instantly available in all start dates. The only effort it takes is collecting the resources to upgrade your Domicile Mansion to Level 2, move it into a County in your Governorship and pay for the Decision.

Start as a Ritsuryō Governor (check the government of a selected character), ensuring they are a House Head (holding the Domicile) and take the decision.

Flying Colors
Pass all Exams with one character
		Passed all exams with the same character	Follow the guide for Stamp of Approval first. After completing the Children's Examination, wait for a Provincial Examination to start, and enter it. Upon easily passing this one too, focus on improving your Learning and Confucian Education by using the Study scheme, getting a Mentor via the Request Mentorship interaction, and getting Perks from the Learning Lifestyle. Once the Emperor starts a Capital Examination, enter it.

The Palace Examination is only available if you score in the top 10 of the regular Metropolitan Examination. You should be able to complete both at once if you're a skilled scholar.

Highway of Ideas
Starting as a ruler of a culture with no Silk Road Innovations, discover a Silk Road Innovation
	Culture has a Silk Road Innovation	Discovered a Silk Road Innovation	Replace a ruler on the Silk Road with a custom character with a distant culture and high Stewardship and Learning. Use the Visit a Silk Road Market decision and pass the skill challenge.

Humble Beginnings
Starting as a Wanua ruler, adopt Mandala government through your Suzerain, and build your first Capital Complex
	Wanua government	Adopted Mandala government through suzerain
Built a Capital Complex	Starting as Raja Indra Warmandewa of Kutai in 867, immediately submit to Raja Aditya of Tanjungpura as a tributary and take the decision (which should be immediately available) to adopt Mandala government. To unlock the Complex Great Project (found in the Projects tab of the Decisions menu), you need a Legitimacy of 1, Level of Devotion of 2, and at least one Tributary (which you can easily get from wars or the Embrace as Tributary interaction).

From here, all you need to do is gain Gold, Piety, and Legitimacy, the latter two coming via Mandala Rituals on the map and the Pilgrimage activity, and the former coming from the buildings you have right off the bat (you don't need much). Once you have enough, fund the Great Project and wait 5 years for it to be completed to get the achievement.

The requirements for the Rite of Worthiness will change depending on your Mandala Aspect. Destruction is the fastest, but will require you to have a high martial spouse set to Chivalry.

Bloc Politics
Have max Cohesion in your Bloc
		House Bloc has 100.0 Cohesion	Blocs are only available in Japan. Getting to 75 Cohesion is relatively easy, but after that point it is extremely hard to gain Cohesion passively as the game will more or less manipulate the numbers so that it evens out to zero.

Instead, You need to use the Bloc Expansion Casus Belli, which is available to Soryo governors. as victory with this CB gives a special event and +5.0 Cohesion instantly. To get the achievement, start as any ruler of sizable strength (Northern Japan's Duchy-tier rulers in 1066 or 1178 are good choices), wait until your Bloc Cohesion is at 75 through passive means, then simply declare and win several Bloc Expansion wars until Cohesion reaches 100. Ensure that you only declare war on realms that are not part of a Bloc, otherwise you will probably lose.

Confucian Scholar
Finish the Confucian Education track and have 5 disciples
		Confucian Education trait with 100 experience
5 Disciples	You get the education trait naturally when playing in China and climbing the ranks. If the AI isn't requesting to be your Disciple, go to your character screen and right click on yourself, then find the "Request Mentee" option. Your entire immediate family, including spouses, will always accept this interaction.

Cut off the Head... and the Body will Follow
Successfully use the the Eradicate Casus Belli against a House that you have the Feuding House Relation with
			If you just keep murdering a random house's family members either through events or intrigue, you should be able to get to Feuding status pretty quickly. Try to do this to a house that isn't in a bloc, as that'd complicate actually winning the war. Once you're at feuding status you can just declare war once you're stronger & take their capital to win. Creating a custom martial/intrigue character should make this whole process quicker.

This can be done anywhere, as long as you have a bad enough relationship with a landed ruler. Keep murdering/killing/doing bad things to a house, and you can get the house extermination CB. Win that, and you get this achievement.

Daits How You Do It
Found the Dai Viet Empire
		Owns the Dai Viet Empire	The only things required for this decision are owning the Kingdoms of Viet and Champa as an independent Viet culture character with a realm capital somewhere in Viet. Start as Viet in either 1066 or 1178, either with the historical rulers or a custom war-focused character, and conquer the rather small kingdom of Champa with county expansion Casus Bellis. 1178 affords the quickest start, especially with a custom character, as Champa doesn't start as your Tributary and you won't have to wait for a truce before beginning your conquest. It will nonetheless probably take longer to get the 2000 Prestige required for the decision than it will to meet the territorial requirements.

Holding a Coronation and swearing an Expand the Realm Oath before you start the first war is one of the most useful steps towards collecting Prestige and ensuring Realm stability.

Devaraja
Max out your Mandala Aspect and have a Grand Temple Complex
		Mandala Aspect at highest level
Grand Temple Complex	Grand Temple Complex is the fourth level of Capital Temple Complex. Upgrading the Mandala Aspect and the Temple Complex have the same requirements for each level. The requirements will change based on your Aspect, ranging from having competent knights and high prowess to siring many children. Aspect of Destruction is probably the easiest path, but it will usually require multiple ruler lifetimes due to age-based prowess loss.

How it's done, done, done
Take the Unite the Husamguk decision
		Took the Unite the Husamguk decision	The decision is only available for Buyeo culture group if starting in 867. Play as Silla, conquer the only specific county left in the game that you need (which just so happens to be conveniently independent), then conquer whatever your heart desires until your realm is large enough to take the decision. Conquest of parts of China is possible once Tang explodes, and could be potentially combined with various Chinese achievements from the list below, if you so choose.

Shōgun
Become Shōgun, holding the Empire of Japan as Minamoto no Yoritomo in 1178
		Playing as Minamoto no Yoritomo
Took the Formalize Shogunate decision	Upon game start, immediately leave your current Bloc and found a new one by inviting independent (i.e, not part of a Bloc) fellow vassals to it. Start hunts and other prestige-gaining activities, and take the Assert Regional Dominion decision when available.

Additionally, ensure that all of the House Heads in your Bloc follow the same Aspiration as you, accomplished via the "Demand Aspiration Change" interaction. This will cause your Bloc Cohesion to rapidly rise, and a Cohesion of 75 is required for the next step of the achievement.

Once your Bloc has greater military strength than the current Daijo-daijin, start an "Install Ruling Regent" faction and press your demands. Win the war if necessary, and relish in your new title as Daijo-daijin. You now have to meet a few conditions, including having both Legitimacy and Prestige at level 4, and having the third level of crown authority (Powerful Ministries) - Japan starts at level 2. These are relatively easy to accomplish with activities, and once met, you can take the Formalize Shogunate decision. Must be accomplished within the lifetime of Minamoto no Yorimoto.

Upper-upper
Reach the highest level of Merit
		Merit Rank 1	You need to play as a vassal with Celestial government. Pick or create a character with high Learning. Start by completing the available Examinations and using the Study scheme. Join every Examination you see, prioritizing Capital Examinations if one is happening, and always pick options that give Merit. Once appointed to a governorship, either recruit Men-at-Arms (if a Military governor) or build buildings and increase your tax income (if any other type of governor) to rapidly increase your passive Merit gain. More expensive Men-at-Arms have a greater impact on monthly Merit gain, so you should buy the most expensive Men-at-Arms you can. Black Armoured Cavalry are a good choice, as they are the most expensive.

Continue this cycle until you reach the highest rank. It will take quite a while (50+ years), so be patient. Hosting Examinations and Inspections are additional ways of getting Merit.

A Living God on Earth
As a Mandala ruler, have a Godlike level of piety, rule an empire, and have 100 radiance
		Mandala government
Godlike level of devotion
100 Mandala Radiance
Owns an empire	A ruler must die with the Religious Icon level of devotion to unlock Divine. Their heir must die with Divine to unlock Demigod. And their heir must die with Demigod to unlock Godlike. They must also die in a way that is acceptable by their Mandala Aspect, however Natural Causes (essentially anything that doesn't result from a war, scheme, activity, or disease) is acceptable to all Aspects. Piety is gained through Mandala Rituals, Tributaries, and Pilgrimages.

This is a major bug in the game not upgrading the max piety level even when it should have. A current workaround is to use the designated successor button to pick an heir that the game does recognize. This have to be done for every succession right now, due to the bug.

Grand Governor
Starting as landless, work your way up to become a Minister in China
	Landless	Councilor of Hegemony of China	Same as Upper-upper, but with the final step - after you get the rank 1 you also need to boost your candidacy score via influence, interactions, and schemes, and wait until you get a Ministry.

Mandate of Heaven
Claim the Hegemony of China and choose a name for your new Imperial Dynasty
	Hegemony of China title	Owns the Hegemony of China title	Can be combined with Fishing in China achievement

Sword of Japan
Starting as the Chrysanthemum Throne, restore direct imperial rule
	The Chrysanthemum Throne	Owns the Empire of Japan title
Taken the Restore Direct Imperial Rule decision	There are two ways to go about this, which differ based on the starting date, your patience, and whether you'd like to enjoy some historical flavor. Do not start in 1178, as the realm will already be Feudal (Soryo) and the achievement will be quite difficult.

Starting in 867 as Korehito, use political schemes and influence to get yourself to the front of the line of succession as soon as possible. The reigning Kampaku is old and will die within a few years of game start. Once elected to the regency, choose to abdicate, passing the ceremonial throne to your heir whilst keeping control over the Empire itself (this is a historical method of imperial rule that Japan actually used for a while).

You now want to ensure your heir is first in line for the Empire, whilst biding your time as you await the Early Medieval era and the Royal Prerogative innovation. Once you have this innovation and have subsequently died and started playing as your heir (who must now hold both the Empire and the Chrysanthemum Throne--DO NOT abdicate), you will be able to pass the third level of crown authority and take the decision.

Starting as Chikahito in 1066, you can either use politics to be elected to the throne as above (difficult as there are less Japanese rulers in 1066 with access to influence to help you), or use the Depose scheme (Intrigue lifestyle focus will help with this) to overthrow the ruling Kampaku. Either way, once on the throne you should already have access to the decision, if not, use activities to boost prestige to enact the requisite laws and take the decision. If starting in this date, do not abdicate upon ascending the throne - you already have Royal Prerogative unlocked and there is no need to abdicate to ensure your line can stay on the throne.

Fishing in China
As Jarl Hæsteinn, become Hegemon of China
	Playing as Jarl Hæsteinn of Montaigu in 867	Owns the Hegemony of China title	The main part of this achievement is to get to China in time before you die or it explodes. You can use the Adventure CB more than once, to make sure you're out of range for the King of France which will try his best to kill you. You can use the regular "take county" CB to puncture your way, hopping from county to county (e.g. Dalmatia -> Sinai -> Oman -> Gujarat -> Bengal -> Vietnam). Try to not use your special units as they don't repopulate. Once you border China you will get the Claim the Mandate CB. Use it, use your armies strategically to defeat an enemy, then take some land and you can enforce demands, getting the achievement

Note that despite the achievement being worded as "Starting as Hæsteinn" it is actually "Playing as Hæsteinn".

The Heavenly Kingdom
Claim the Mandate of Heaven as the Head of Faith of a Christian faith
		Owns the Hegemony of China title
Head of Faith of a Christian faith	Can be combined with Fishing in China achievement.

Set the Rule Conquerors: Frequency to None or Vicayâla Chola will be a Conqueror and possibly block you from taking the optimal Holy Site.

Playing as Hæsteinn, make your way towards India. Take a break after an Adventure CB on a Tribal Duchy on the eastern African coast which will allow you to Raid with the Capture Intent. Make as many prisoners as possible, execute them and undertake Pilgrimages until you have 4000 Piety.

Continue and conquer the Holy site of Kerala of Nestorianism in the Raj of Chera Nadu. Then continue without any further Adventure CBs towards the border of China.

Once you have the Claim the Mandate CB, convert to Nestorianism, then create a new Christian Faith with you as temporal Head of Faith (new Faiths can't be created while at war). Reset your perks to take the Apostate and Prophet Perks (Hæsteinn already has 7 Learning Perks because the game wants him to have Whole of Body) to reduce costs.
