Basque In My Glory
Embrace the Euskal Erlijioa Faith during the Iberian Struggle
		Year is 1200 or later
Has taken the "Champion the Faith of the Country Basques" decision.	In 867 replace the king of France with a character of Basque culture, Cynical trait, and traits that give Prestige and Piety. You will already hold the required counties. Raise Prestige and Piety to 1000 each and use the Champion the Faith of the Country Basques decision.

Friendship Is Magic
Use a friendship Hook on a different-Faith Ruler Involved in the Iberian Struggle
	Involved in the Iberian Struggle	Involved in the Iberian Struggle
Used a Best Friend hook on a different-Faith Ruler Involved in the Iberian Struggle	In 867 start as King Alfonsu III of Asturias. He starts as friends with Sheikh Lubb Muzez of Najera, who will usually agree to an Oath of True Friendship. Then use the hook.

History's Best Friends
Sleep with your best friend while having the Ritualized Friendship Cultural Tradition
		Culture has the Ritualized Friendship tradition
Slept with a Best Friend	Change the Sexuality Distribution game rule to Homosexuality. Play the The Struggle for Iberia scenario as Ibn-Marwan of Badajoz. He starts as friends with Emir Sa'dun ibn Fath of Burtughal, who will usually agree to an Oath of True Friendship. Then use the Seduce scheme on him.

High Stakes
Bet a Title on a strategy game match against another Ruler and complete the match
		Completed a board game for Land	Play the Iberia in Pieces scenario as either King Alfonso VI of León or King Sancho II of Castille. Both of them can do a board game against each other for land from the start.

Iberia or Iberia?
As an Iberian character, control all of the Caucasian Iberia region. May not be available for characters created in the Ruler Designer.
	Custom character	Iberian Heritage
Control the following counties:
Hayk
Hereti
Kakheti
Kartli
Klarjeti
Lori
Tao
Tbilisi
Vanand	The required area comprises the duchy of Georgia, the duchy of Tao-Klarjeti except for Acampse, and the counties of Hayk and Vanand. In 867, play as the Abbasid to start with half of the required counties. Conquer the remaining ones, then the islands in the Mediterranean to advance towards the county of Mayurqa. Move the realm capital there and convert to local culture.

Iberian Compromise
End the Iberian Struggle through the Status Quo Ending
		Achieved the Status Quo ending for the Iberian Struggle	Requires being Involved in the struggle (not Interloper). Keep constructing buildings that provide taxes in city holdings to push the struggle phase towards Conciliation, then do the same in castle holdings to reach the Compromise phase. Then grant independence to vassals until you control less than 50% of Iberia.

Make sure that you keep all holdings in your primary kingdom title when releasing vassals, as that is one of the requirements. Releasing one or two large vassals to go under the 50% limit will make it easier to meet the requirement of having 60 opinion or strong hooks on all independent involved rulers

Iberian Hostilities
End the Iberian Struggle through the Dominance Ending
		Achieved the Dominance ending for the Iberian Struggle	Requires being Involved in the struggle (not Interloper). In 867 replace the Umayyad Sultan with a custom character of Andalusian culture and Muwalladism faith. Surrender in the starting wars. Convert the counties in your capital's kingdom and create a second kingdom title before a vassal gets the chance to do it. Then keep constructing buildings that provide taxes in castle holdings to push the struggle phase towards Hostility.

Holidaying in Iberia
Start as an Uninvolved character, become Involved and end the Iberian Struggle
	Uninvolved in the Iberian Struggle	Achieved any of the three main endings for the Iberian Struggle	In 1178 play as Mu'minid. Use the invasion casus belli on Castille (make sure to select the Kingdom of Castille when declaring war on them). After winning the war give your starting domain to someone else and move your capital to the newly conquered domain. Give the head of faith title to someone else so you can convert to Muwalladism. Wait for the struggle phase to reach Compromise and pick the Status Quo ending.

Alternatively, play as Eudes Robertine of Anjou in 867, working towards the Kings to the Seventh Generation achivement. As King of France or Emperor of Francia it is very easy to conquer Iberian land as nobody will be powerful enough to stop you. Conquer what you need, convert to Mozarabism, and end the struggle however you like. You can get three achievements in one run this way, at minimum.

Iberian Conciliation
End the Iberian Struggle through the Detente Ending
		Achieved the Détente ending for the Iberian Struggle	Requires being Involved in the struggle (not Interloper). In 867 replace the Umayyad Sultan with a custom character of Andalusian culture, Muwalladism faith, traits that grant prestige and a number of daughters. Keep constructing buildings that provide taxes in city holdings to push the struggle phase towards Conciliation. After you've made enough progress grant independence to vassals until you control less than 50% of Iberia.

Make sure that you keep all holdings in your primary kingdom title when releasing vassals, as that is one of the requirements. Releasing one or two large vassals to go under the 50% limit will make it easier to meet the requirement of having alliances with all independent involved rulers.

The Andalusian Inquisition
Convert all of Iberia to Mozarabism
		All counties in the Iberia region follow Mozarabism	In 867 replace the Umayyad Sultan with a custom character of Andalusian culture, Mozarabism faith, learning education and pick traits that will offset the Opinion loss. Surrender in the starting wars. Focus on the Theologian lifestyle tree and convert all your counties. Keep the Iberian Struggle in the Opportunity phase as long as possible. May be combined with Reconquista achievement.

Legacy of The Campeadores
Create and rule Valencia as an heir to El Cid. May not be available for characters created in the Ruler Designer.
	Custom character	Kingdom of Valencia
Related to Rodrigo de Vivar	This achievement becomes a lot easier if the Roads to Power DLC is installed to make El Cid playable, in which case he will appear in the The Wandering Exiles scenario screen.

Easily combined with Mio Cid. After completing the story and becoming a vassal of Castille, build up power and take your liege's throne. Claim a random county within Valencia, preferably one that's part of a duchy mostly owned by one state. Your priest will give you a claim on the entire duchy due to the religious differences. Take that duchy and use the Struggle Clash casus belli to get to the 6 county threshold for forming the kingdom.
