Blood of my Blood
Become Blood Brothers
		Blood Brother	Starting as Temujin in 1178 will almost always yield a willing Blood Brother on game start. Temujin's real-life Blood Brother, Jamukha, starts as his vassal.

Con-fed-up
Form a Confederation.
		Formed a confederation	Create a custom tribal or nomad duke with the Diplomat trait, ensure you have the same culture as a neighbor count or duke, and put the remaining points into Diplomacy. Take the Call for Confederation decision and then ask the neighbor to join a confederation.

Steppe by Steppe
Starting as a nomadic ruler in the Eastern Steppe, migrate to the Western Steppe.
	Nomadic government
Realm is in the Eastern Steppe	Migrated to the Western Steppe	You can change the size of your horde for the migration target. There should always be herder counties to migrate to, so you can shrink from a higher title (duchy and above) to a county-level horde that only occupies one county at the end of the migration. Do this if you want to migrate fast and don't want to deal with wars, especially with confederations, as that could easily mean 10k~100k "coalitions" to deal with. Also, the Khazars could be a pain to deal with, since they can occupy most of the western steppe, but there usually should be at least one county be either independent or herder. The only other concern is gold and the army. If you have too many MAAs, you could have negative income after shrinking from a duke to a count, yet you still need a good army to deal with enemies. Excecise good judgement in balancing the two.

In Xanadu
Build a Pleasure Dome.
		Built a Pleasure Dome	Start as any emperor in the Great Steppe.

Nobody's Business
Use the Overrun Kingdom Casus Belli to settle your people outside of The Great Steppe.
		Won a war using the Overrun Kingdom casus belli	Easily done as the Khazars in 867.

Settling In
Become a settled ruler in The Great Steppe.
		Capital is in the Great Steppe region
Became settled	Can be done from the start by any powerful nomad.

Tribute Band
Have 30 Tributaries.
		Has 30 tributaries	Play as any large nomad realm and release all vassals as tributaries.

Shut Up Nerge
Host an Excellent Nerge Hunt.
			Temujin in 1178 has ideal Skills to achieve a Nerge Hunt with maximum success scoring in at most a few attempts.

This Chinggis Everything
Become the Greatest of Khans.
		Greatest of Khans trait	The Greatest of Khans trait is given upon winning the Great War of Defiance which will trigger in response to taking the Become the Greatest of Khans Major Nomadic Decision.

As this is also on the path to take for the The Stallion that Mounts the World achievement starting as Temüjin is advisable but it is doable with any Nomadic Mongolian ruler with high Martial, Diplomacy and Prowess. A high Martial Education, the Military Engineer and Organizer Traits are also desirable.

Set your Kurultai to Increase Control if necessary and to Support Herders or Manage Fertility otherwise. If you need Piety a Pilgrimage is more effective than Aid Stargazer.

Make sure you have competent people in your Caravan Master, Noyan and Keeper of the Horses Court Positions and set their tasks to Prepare Armies, Cow Vassals and Warhorse Grooming.

Do a Nerge Hunt each year (Hunt Activity cooldown is reduced by 50% because of Prolific Hunters Cultural Tradition) with Substantial Party Size Activity Option. Always pick the options on maxing out the success scoring first to get an Excellent Nerge Outcome.This is your main source of Gold, Prestige and Legitimacy. Nomadic rulers can move their Realm Capital as often as they want so you can move it close to the activity destination to have less travel time. Exclude Vassal and Tributary Guests to reduce how long you have to wait until it starts. Migrate to more fertile lands if you have done a Nerge Hunt in all of your realm counties.

Create Men-at-Arms and improve your Realm Capital. Focus on Heavy Horse Archers and Torch Bearers Regiments as well as Domicile Buildings increasing Herd Capacity, Herd Gain, County Fertility and Army Movement Speed.

Inbetween Nerge Hunts you can wage war with the Nomadic Quarrels, Bring under Tribute and Expand Dominance Casus Belli to grow your realm.

Continue to Demand Vassalization and Tributaries, change Contracts to higher Herd Tithes, Demand Submission, Demand Horses and give Vassal Directives to increase County Fertility. Do not accept Vassals too remote from Mongolia to keep your Realm compact and avoid easy occupation targets for your war opponents.

Offering to join wars on Tributaries defending against rulers from other Realms, hosting a Tsagaan Sar Feast, Funeral or Grand Tournament are also good ways to collect Prestige and opinion.

Raiding and Stealing Herd can also increase your resources but will reduce opinion so preferably ignore those options.

Continue until you can increase your Dominance and take Dominate Title and ultimately the Become the Greatest of Khans decisions. The ensuing Wars can have a Battle Won Score which is capped at 100% so focus on defeating the opposing hordes while you capture two or three holdings of them with a separate army. Opposing armies will attack your realm from multiple angles and attempt to retreat when they notice your army approaching which is why your Army Movement Speed is so important.

Pick Strategist Perks and Nomadic Dynasty Legacies as they become available. After you've fully unlocked the Strategist Perk Tree switch to Diplomacy Lifestile Focus and aim for the True Ruler Perk.

If you want the helpful Paiza System change the Cultural Fascination to Ledger as soon as you become the Cultural Head and if you have enough Prestige to spare reform Mongol by establishing the Horse Breeders (Warfare) and later on the Iron Cavalry (Regional) Cultural Traditions.

Make sure to not to accidentaly take the Move into Conquered Lands, Settle the Steppe, Forsake Nomadism or Convert to Local Culture Decisions.

The Stallion that Mounts the World
Starting as Temüjin, conquer the world.
	Playing as Temüjin in 1178	Control the entire world	Follow the Guide to the This Chinggis Everything achievement first.

Destroy your current Regiments and replace them with Keshig and Cataphract Archers recruited from your subjects. You should get access to those by having Khitan or Tangut Vassals.

Use the Offer Submission or Ruin interaction on your neighbouring rulers even if the Acceptance Chance is 0%. Either Demand Siege Weapons if their culture has Trebuchet Innovation unlocked or Demand Special Soldiers if not. You can do this even with already raised armies so you can continue from one ruler to the next.

Grant conquered Counties and Duchies to people of the local culture or Mongols with high Martial. Demand Submission and Demand or Inspire Conversion with all your new Vassals.

Don't Demand Vassalization anymore. The Offer Submission or Ruin interaction is much more effective and can even be made on your Tributaries.

Continue until you control the entire world.
