Abbasid Might
Take the Renewed Caliphate ending in the Iranian Intermezzo Struggle
		Achieved the Dominance ending for the Iranian Intermezzo	Play as the Abbasid Caliph. First defeat the starting rebellion. Then conquer the Arabic peninsula. When ready, declare war on Tulunid using the pressed claim you have. Then, conquer the rulers in the east that are not Sunni (any ruler that is not Ash'ari, Maturidi, or Mu'tazili), and either conquer the remaining rulers with the Detractor of the Caliphate trait or fabricate Weak Hooks on them to force them to become supporters. Go on pilgrimages to raise devotion while waiting for the Stabilization struggle phase.

Rich in Diversity
As a character of a faith with the Jizya or Tax Nonbelievers doctrines, have ten vassals of other faiths
		Faith has the Jizya doctrine or Tax Nonbelievers tenet
Has 10 vassals of other faith	Obtained instantly by playing as the Seljuk emperor in 1066.

Royal Flush
As a character of a Faith with the Fedayeen Doctrine, dispose of a Lowborn, a King, and an Emperor
		Faith has the Fedayeen tenet
Succeeded a Murder scheme against a lowborn
Succeeded a Murder scheme against a king
Succeeded a Murder scheme against an emperor	Play as Vali of Bam. Appoint a Master Assassin, choose Intrigue focus and swear fealty to Saffarids to get extended diplomatic range. Byzantine emperor is the easiest Empire target. Among the nearby kings, pick the one with the lowest Intrigue.

All Your Caliphate Are Belong To Us
Take the Dominate the Caliph foundation as part of the Abbasid Humiliation ending in the Iranian Intermezzo Struggle
		Achieved the Abbasid Humiliation - Dominate the Caliph ending for the Iranian Intermezzo	Holder of the Sunni Caliphate must also hold the Arabian Empire. Start as Amiran Ya'qub of Makran or replace him with a custom ruler if you wish. Win the starting war and conquer as many of the independent realms as you can. Steer your House Unity towards Antagonistic, allowing unlimited use of the Subjugate Kingdom Casus Belli, then use it to conquer Mesopotamia and Jazira. The Levant is very dense with counties so you will need to focus on taking as many of them away from the Caliph as possible, simply trying to outcompete him in conquest will be challenging.

You must personally hold (cannot be held by a vassal) the County of Samarra for five years to take the decision. After conquering Mesopotamia you will have all of the territorial requirements, simply conquer until you're bigger than the Empire and take the decision once the five years are up.

Fiscal Responsibility
Fill five Tax Collector slots with excellent aptitude characters
		Has 5 Tax Collectors with excellent aptitude	In 1066 play as Ghaznavid and appoint a vizier to unlock 5 Tax Collector slots. High learning skill Tax Collectors tends to have excellent aptitude. Send children to university for high learning skill if you have enough money. You can also use the search for tax collectors decision to increase your chances. Allow your vizier to swing the scales of power to a high level as it will boost the aptitude of all Tax Collectors.

Mulct Them Dry
Loot four Illustrious-tier Vizier Extravagance modifiers from your Vizier
		Looted four Illustrious-tier Vizier Extravagance modifiers from the Vizier	Appoint a vizier by right clicking on one of your tax collectors, only available if you are at peace.

There are four tiers of modifiers:

First tier : Notable, the Vizier does a check every 12-18 months for 100 gold
Second tier : Remarkable, same but for 200 gold
Third tier : Famous, 300 gold
Fourth tier : Illustrious, 400 gold

One modifier will be gained at a time, and the vizier will only start to gain Remarkable modifiers once they have four Notable modifiers, etc. This means it will take about 16 years to build up four Illustrious modifiers. This is more reliable if you ensure your vizier always has more than 400 gold by sending gifts intermittently.

Once all four are present, right click your vizier. Go for Mulct Vizier and Aggressive Auditing. If your vizier dies, you will have to restart therefore make sure the vizier can sustain those 16 years. If you die the stacks don't disappear.

Iranian Revival
Take the Iranian Resurgence ending in the Iranian Intermezzo Struggle
		Achieved the Iranian Resurgence ending for the Iranian Intermezzo	Replace the Abbasid Caliph with a custom character of Persian culture and traits that will offset the Opinion loss. This will cancel the starting war.

Shia Reborn
Take the Found a New Caliphate foundation as part of the Abbasid Humiliation ending in the Iranian Intermezzo Struggle
		Achieved the Abbasid Humiliation - Found a New Caliphate ending for the Iranian Intermezzo	Replace the Abbasid Caliph with a custom character with the Sayyid and Wise Man traits. This will cancel the starting war. Wait to gain Piety to convert to Isma'ilism. Once you have enough, give the Sunni Caliphate title to someone else and then take the Announce Opposition to Caliphate decision. Convert to Isma'ilism and you can then end the struggle.

Darius Revenge
As a character of Iranian heritage, hold the Empire of Persia, Kingdom of Thessalonika, and Kingdom of Hellas
		Iranian heritage
Empire of Persia
Kingdom Thessalonika
Kingdom of Hellas	Start as the Seljuk Emperor in 1066. You should win the ongoing war easily. Try to limit the usage of the special troops since those don't respawn.

Go in pilgrimages to get the necessary level of devotion for Kingdom-level holy wars. At the same time start a murder plot to eliminate the Byzantine Emperor to avoid the truce cooldown. Declare a holy war for Pontus.

Kill the Byzantine Emperor and declare duchy wars for the actual targets. You can also wait for a rebellion to remove the Byzantine Emperor and the truce cooldown will disappear as well.

N.B. : Remember to convert to a culture of Iranian heritage. You do not need every county in all 3 titles for the achievement to trigger, but you need to own the kingdoms yourself as opposed to being the liege of the owner.

The Umayyad Strikes Back
Starting as a member of the Umayyad dynasty, hold the Empire of Arabia and the Sunni Caliphate
	Dynasty is Umayyad	Empire of Arabia
Sunni Caliphate	The Caliphate will be destroyed if the holder loses all of his land.

Starting as al-Andalus in 867, conquer the weaker duchies on the African coast, then use them to take Krete, allowing you to swear fealty to the Abbasids. Use the Claim Throne scheme to take the empire, then let the Caliphate be independent after you become the emperor.

Prestige is not required for the decision to restore the Caliphate, so you can ignore the truce and conquer all of the available land. Make sure to get piety level 3 before doing so, otherwise another character can create the Caliphate title before you. Then, simply take the decision to restore the Caliphate.

Alternately, use the game rule to make the Abbasids Administrative. Then, if you take the throne, you will simply gain the Caliphate title at the same time.
