Historically Inaccurate
Choose to set out on an Adventure as a spawned Historical Character.
Switched to a Historical Character when they spawned in the realm	In 867, play as Count Werner of Worms (he owns Speyer, just north of the capital of East Francia). Regino of Prüm should spawn as soon as you unpause the game.

Band of Brothers
Have every camp followers temperament be positive and have at least 10 camp followers.
Steadfast camp temperament

 At least 10 camp followers

	in 1066 replace King Harold of England with a custom character with a spouse and 9 children and spend all points on Diplomacy. Surrender to William to become an adventurer.

Quantum Leap
Choose a New Destiny 5 times in the same campaign.
Chose a New Destiny 5 times	Play as any dynasty that has a lot of living members and always pick Choose a New Destiny. The Rurikids in 1178 are a good choice, with over 100 living members. Start pilgrimages to the furthest possible holy site and maximize danger, then take the most dangerous option every time. Raising stress to the max can also speed up death.

Only "Choose a New Destiny" on succession counts - other events that change your player character, like the historical character "I wonder what destiny lies before him..." option, do not count, though neither do they reset your progress (even if you change dynasty).

Birthright
As a Legitimist Adventurer, win a claim war for a Kingdom or Empire.
Won a claim war as a Legitimist Adventurer	A fast, easy start for this is Master Todor, landless in 1178. He starts with 10k special troops, high gold and high prestige, and is aged only 24. You can become legitimist by buying a claim on an Orthodox state title from the Patriarch in Byzantium. His starting special troops and a few bought/requested men-at-arms should be sufficient to capture Tamar's Georgia or even a beleaguered Byzantine Empire without outside support.

Other recommended starts are to accept defeat as King Harold (Fate of England, 1066) or un-land yourself as Prince Pascueten of Brittany (867). This strategy relies either on hoarding gold for mercenaries, or using the "Request Legitimist Support" interaction with a neighboring King (try Scotland/France). Note that you MUST be at least Exalted Among Men to receive troops and gold from the "Legitimist Support" contract; you can take the interaction before, but the contract will disappear if you travel for any other work.

Despotic
As Co-Emperor, rule a Despotate.
Co-Emperor

 Rules a Despotate

	In 1066 play as Strategos Michael of Philippopolis. He starts as Co-Emperor of the Byzantine Empire. Swing the Scales of Power to level 3 and then demand a private despotate.

Epic Paperwork
Adopt the Administrative Government via Decision.
Took the Adopt Centralized Administration decision	Play as a king near the Byzantine Empire and swear fealty to them. Then take the Adopt Centralized Administration decision. Easily combined with New Management, Same as the Old Management.

In Good Estate
Upgrade your Estate with a lvl 5 Villa and fill all external slots.
Grand Estate villa level

 Constructed a domicile building in each building slot

	Set the Extra Administrative Realms - Players game rule to Always. Then in 1178 play as the Holy Roman Empire to start with an estate halfway built and upgraded.

Alternatively, in the course of completing Against All Odds, converting to Administrative government after swearing fealty to the Byzantines will give you a similarly upgraded estate.

It's OK, I Got a Permit
As a non-Powerful family, buy a Remit and successfully Raid the Estate of a Powerful Family.
Has a remit

 Completed a Raid Estate scheme
 Scheme target is part of a Powerful Family
 Powerful Family

	The remit has a tendency to disappear without warning or feedback, so the safe approach is to start the raid scheme first, ask for the remit once it's ready to fire, and fire it as soon as you have the remit.

Start in 1066 as Basileus Konstantinos X will almost always agree to grant a remit if you offer some gold. Begin the scheme as soon as possible as the remit will expire if the emperor dies. Try to start as a vassal who has a good traits for Diplomacy or Liege opinion, as this will make it more likely that Konstantinos will like you enough to give you the remit with a bribe.

Strategos Iosephos of Kilikia Provence starts with a decent level of intrigue learning as an Intricate Webweaver which makes the scheme much easier. Make sure you have a decent spymaster and set them to support schemes. Try to pick an estate from a powerful family that doesn't have a guardhouse upgrade to improve your chances further.

Not Content to Serve
In 1178, start as the Palaiologos and become Emperor of Byzantium.
Playing as Strategos Alexios or Tourmarchēs Alexios in 1178	

 Byzantine Empire
 Playing as Strategos Alexios or Tourmarchēs Alexios

	It needs to be accomplished in Alexios's lifetime. Start with the Skullduggery focus of the Intrigue Lifestyle and immediately begin scheming to murder the top candidate to the Empire. At the same time, use political schemes to promote yourself and slander others...the Challenge Status scheme is not recommended as it is very slow and takes up your political scheme slot. Use governance issues to gain influence, and gift gold to the heads of powerful families for even more influence. Use that influence to hurt other successors and promote yourself.

It is likely that the emperor at game start will die before you get yourself into the top position. Don't worry, just keep building your score. Only murder candidates that are hundreds of score above yourself, as it is very quick and easy to slander people/hurt their candidacy through influence. Just keep a good watch on the succession window and continually start political schemes. You should easily get yourself to the top of the line of succession. After that, just wait for the emperor to die.

Note: The achievement will be blocked if your Palaiologos successor is female.

Note: available without Roads to Power DLC.

Started from the Bottom now we're ERE
As an adventurer, buy an Estate in Byzantium and lead your line to become Emperors.
Adventurer	 Purchased an estate

 Byzantine Empire

	With minimal DLC, a strong start is Master Todor (1178, Landless Adventurer), who starts within Byzantine Empire borders with high gold, high prestige and a prestige gain modifier. Note that you will lose Todor's powerful special troops upon purchasing your estate, so feel free to throw them at the many enemies of the Empire.

With the Khans of the Steppe DLC, however, starting in 1178 is NOT recommended because the Mongols will conquer rapidly, potentially un-landing you and leaving you rivaled with the Khan (making it tedious to acquire de jure land within or restore the Byzantine Empire title). An alternative start is Robert Phrangopoulos ("The Wandering Exiles", 1066), whose Martial skill and Prowess make for entertaining Swords-for-Hire play.

Regardless of the chosen character and start date, the paths to the throne are about the same.

Your first goal is to grow your family. You will need adult heirs to maintain your governorship and spread your dynasty. Marry a camp follower, romance nearby eligible courtiers, or complete "Rescue Fair Subject" contracts for a chance to invite a beautiful maiden to camp.

Before landing yourself, your next goal is to buy an estate. Prioritize completing contracts for duchy-level patrons in the Empire, all of whom can be approached for the "Procure Estate" interaction. You will require 1000 gold, and either a weak hook, high prestige or high piety. You may also need to sway your target lord and improve your Level of Fame before (s)he agrees to grant the estate. While it is not necessary to get the Emperor as a patron, a hook may be useful later; look for "Fight Corruption" tasks, or decline an invitation to war so you can negotiate patronage.

Once estate-landed, there are several Roads to Power. Stockpile Influence and seek candidacy for your House within the realm. If the Emperor likes you, you may be able to use 200+ Influence to request a governorship outright. You can also "Influence Candidacy" of yourself or adult heirs to other Themes besides your own. You can "Start Boundary Disputes" against neighboring vassals (preferably those belonging to Powerful Families) to take more land. Provided you first have a Theme, you may use the Meritocracy perk to make a claim on the Empire. Consider also kidnapping or murdering the Emperor to get your way. Alternatively, request the Emperor install you as Co-Emperor, and use the "Depose" scheme to win a bloodless coup.

Against the Odds
Starting in 1178, take the Decision to Re-Establish the Theodosian Borders.
Year is 1178	 Taken the Re-Establish the Theodosian Borders decision	In 1178, play as Salāh al-Din of Ayyubid. Immediately declare a holy war for Jerusalem; you should win this war with ease. The decision requires that you control the Kingdoms of Syria, Jerusalem, and Egypt, the duchy of Diyarmudar in Jazira, the duchies of Amman and Shammar in Arabia, and the duchy of Syrte in Africa, in addition to every Byzantine kingdom except Serbia, Croatia, Armenia, and Georgia. Continue conquering the required land while building up piety (hold off on targeting Rum for now, a single de jure war can take them later), then convert to a Christian faith of your choosing, swear fealty to the Byzantine Empire, and adopt Administrative government. You can now focus on becoming emperor. Saladin's stats are very good, so you should have little trouble promoting yourself and slandering others to get yourself to the top of the succession. Once the emperor dies, seize whatever land you didn't already conquer and take the decision.

Note: not available without Roads to Power DLC (due to requirement to hold an estate).

Byzywork
Have five simultaneous House members as Theme governors (not including you) while not being the Emperor.
Five house members are Theme governors under the same top liege

Emperor

	Set the "Extra Administraive Realms - Players" game rule to "Always". In 1066 create a custom King of France who is 50 years old with five sons. Grant Theme governorships to all five sons to unlock the achievement. Note, can also be achieve during the regular could of a game while playing an Administrative Empire of another realm such as Arabian.

Chaos is a Ladder
Become a Dominant Family within Byzantium.
Dominant family	Despite what the description says, it will work in any administrative empire. Set the Extra Administratie Realms - Persia game rule to Administrative in 1178. Play as Jahan Pahlavan Mohammed IV of Azerbaijan to instantly unlock the achievement.

Mio Cid
Complete El Cid's unique content with the 'An Honorable Man' ending.
Playing as Rodrigo Díaz in 1066	 Playing as Rodrigo Díaz

 Achieved the loyal ending to The Song of El Cid story

	Simply make the loyal choice each time one of the story events happens.

New Management, same as the Old Management
As an Islamic Sultanate of Rum, adopt Administrative Government while owning Constantinople.
Sultanate of Rum

County of Constantinople
 Islam religion
 Taken the Adopt Centralized Administration decision

	Start as Salāh al-Din (Sultan of Egypt in 1178). You start with one regiment of Mubarizun and one regiment of Trebuchets - build them to max size, hire at least three regiments of Pikemen and max those out as well. Subjugate Sultanate of Rum. Conquer Constantinople, swear fealty to Byzantium, adopt administrative government via decision.

Rags to Riches to Rags to Riches
Starting as a Count, rule an Empire, become an Adventurer, then rule an Empire again.
Count	 Became an emperor, then became an adventurer, then became an emperor again	Can be done over a single or multiple characters but might not be awarded if other titles are held inbetween.

In 867 start as a custom Baron Vassal of the Khagan of Khazaria at age 44 with Conniving Puppetmaster Education Trait, Sadistic and Deceitful Personality Traits, high Intrigue and a single Son.

Increase your Authority to Limited Tribal Authority, Select a Stewardship Lifestyle and all Perks from the Schemer Perk Tree then wait until you receive a Stewardship Perk to get the Meritocracy Perk.

Start a Claim Throne and Abduct Schemes against the Khagan. Do not complete the Abduct Schme before you have the Claim or the Scheme will be aborted.

Marry your son to an infertile (age 46+) woman to his liking to ensure there won't be another Heir.

As soon as you have the Claim also execute the Abduct Scheme, start a Claimant Faction and when you imprison the Khagan press your Claim.

Enforce your Demands to become the Khagan and thus Emperor.

With Limited Tribal Authority you can attempt to revoke a Title of a Vassal. Select one who provides 0% chance of success and will start a War against your Tyranny when they decline.

Make sure you surrender to all other ongoing Wars first. You can't lose your Title while your fighting a War against a foreign Ruler.

Surrender to your Vassals to get desposed and thus an Adventurer.

Your Son will have become the new Khagan. Start a Murder Scheme against him.

On successful execution of the Scheme you will be Khagan again and should thus receive the Achievement after at most a few ingame days.

Regnum Dei
As Baudouin of Jerusalem in 1178, defeat Saladin in a war.
Playing as King Baudouin IV of Jerusalem in 1178	 Playing as King Baudouin IV of Jerusalem

 Won a war against Salāh al-Din Yusuf

	In game rules set Conquerors: Frequency to None. This way, Saladin will not have the conqueror trait.

Jerusalem starts with higher income than the Ayyubids and Saladin is prone to moving west. At the start, fill your men-at-arms as high as possible (focus on crossbowmen) while simultaneously marrying off your sister to a powerful ally-Hungary and Georgia are both options if you can get the marriage to pop. Declare war on an adjacent county to your borders and wait for your ally to arrive. You should easily beat Saladin's army with their help.

Tamar Mepe
As Princess Tamar, rule all of Georgia and fully conquer Armenia and Daylam.
Playing as Princess Tamar in 1178	 Playing as Princess Tamar

 Completely controls the Kingdom of Armenia
 Completely controls the Kingdom of Daylam
 Completely controls the Kingdom of Georgia

	Play with the Gender Equality game rule set to Inverted. King Giorgi III starts with poor health and will eventually die, passing the kingdom of Georgia to you.

Must be done within the lifetime of Princess Tamar.

It is possible to start as King Giorgi III. When he dies, the achievement will become available for Princess Tamar. You can grant her a duchy to get her started while you proceed to conquer.

Prioritise the territories that are most likely to fall to big rulers first, as fighting them later can be tough. The best Kingdom to focus on the soonest is Armenia as it is in danger of falling to the Byzantines, Abassids or the Sultanate or Rum. Pikeman have a natural advantage in the terrain so use mountains and hills to your advantage. Sieging will be more difficult especially in the mountainous region with higher fort levels, so make sure you have a full stack of trebuchets. Pick allies that are close to you and relatively stable. Hungary and the Byzantine Empire are normally good choices. Be aware that the Mongol horde are quickly approaching if their start date is set to historical in the game settings. It is possible to swear fealty to them and complete the achievement as long as you completely control the three kingdoms before Tamar dies.

The Old Man of the Mountain
Complete Hasan Sabbah unique content by destroying an Empire.
Playing as Hasan Sabbah in 1066	 Playing as Hasan Sabbah

 Won the final war

	Hasan's story has a hidden tracker that advances during certain story events or after using the Evangelize the Faith decision. Stay in Persia, build up your piety (via pilgrimages, using the Prolific Pilgrims perk in the learning tree) and army, but don't take the decision to evangelize. Eventually you get called to Cairo. Once there, continue to build up an army (as large as possible) and wait for the Egyptian Caliph to die; this triggers another story event that allows you to convert to Nizarism. Always choose options that say "advance you down the path."

Eventually another event will appear which will send you back to Persia; now it is time to Evangelize as much as possible, as you will recieve special soldiers scaling to the number of counties of your faith in the realm. At this point it is a good idea to wait for the Persian Emperor to die as his successor will be much weaker. Do not select the current Emperor as the enemy of the faith when prompted. Decline it until the young emperor becomes your option. Once this happens, found the Assassins and wait for civil wars to happen. You can then begin the revolution, which will typically result in an easy victory as the emperor deals with rebels. You can continue to evangelize or spread the Assassins if you wish, to make things easier. Must be completed during the lifetime of Hasan Sabbah.

Despoiler of Byzantium
Become the emperor of a newly-founded Latin Empire through a Crusade.
Latin Empire

Despoiler of Byzantium trait

	You need to be the strongest Catholic leading the crusade in order to be eligible for the event. So England, France, the HRE or Hungary are a good choice. If you aren't the most powerful of the Catholic nations, you can also get the leading role in the event chain by having very high martial skill, which gives you the option to say that you'll only join the deviated Crusade if you get to take the lead when you are asked to join

Can be combined with Regnum Dei.
