Patronage
Fund an Inspired Character's Project, and receive the end result
		Has funded an Inspired character and completed the event chain	Take the Commission Artifact decision.

Changing Course
Create a Divergent Culture
		Has created a divergent culture	Start as one of the Duke vassals of the Byzantine Empire. Most of them can create a divergent culture from the start if they only change ethos.

Converging Paths
Create a Hybrid Culture
		Has created a hybrid culture	Play the Wrath of the Northmen scenario as Ivar the Boneless of Isles. You can immediately take the decision to form a hybrid culture.

I Made This
Loot an Artifact you do not have an Artifact Claim on and pass it down to your Heir
		Looted an Artifact without having an Artifact Claim
Heir inherited the artifact	Start as a ruler who starts with an artifact and gift it to a weak ruler.

Polyglot
Personally know 10 Languages
		Knows 10 languages	Create a 21 years old custom character with the Erudite Oracle trait and put the remaining points into Learning.

Choose a culture with the "Astute Diplomats" tradition for the +1 foreign language limit and +25% Learn Language Scheme Power (Franconian, German, Nubian, Volhynian, Öngüd, Croatian, Bolghar) or with "Culture Blending" for the +30% Learn Language Scheme Power and +1 Max Learn Language Schemes (Mon, Gond, Kamrupi, Avar, Merya, Meshchera, Muroma).

Use the free perks to get the Pedagogy and Open-Minded perks. Use the Learn Language scheme to learn more languages. Choose a diplomacy lifestyle and get the Adaptive Traditions perk for an extra scheme. You can also convert to a culture with a different language or hybridize with one to instantly learn its language.

Brave and Bold
Starting as the Piasts in 867, rule Poland, adopt Feudalism, and own a Famed or Illustrious-rarity regalia, crown, weapon, and armor.
	Playing as Siemowit of Greater Poland in 867	Kingdom of Poland
Government is Feudal
Famed or illustrious armor
Famed or illustrious crown
Famed or illustrious regalia
Famed or illustrious weapon	The fastest way to adopt Feudalism is to use the "Adopt Feudal Ways through Liege" decision. Conquer land in Poland until you are stronger than the ruler of Great Moravia. Then border Great Moravia and convert to Catholicism so the leader will want to take you as a vassal. Swear fealty to Great Moravia and take the decision to become feudal. At this point either fight for independence to be able to form Poland or take over Great Moravia from within. Either way, make sure you own and keep the Kingdom of Poland.

The artifacts can be acquired by sponsoring their creation yourself, and by taking them from others. To get more Inspired characters, raise court grandeur, switch to a Scholarly court, and get the first Erudition dynasty legacy. Periodically use the character finder to search for characters with inventory artifacts, sorting by rank, and focusing on emperors and kings. With the Accomplished Forger perk, buy claims on their artifacts, then demand the artifacts, steal them or go to war for them.

Crème de la Crème
Reach the maximum level of Court Grandeur
		Has Court Grandeur level 10	Start as the Holy Roman Empire in 1066. Display all court artifacts and gradually increase amenities.

Hoarder
Have an Artifact in every slot in the Inventory and Royal Court
		All Inventory artifact slots are used
All Royal Court artifact slots are used	In your inventory you will need a crown, a journal, a weapon, armor, regalia, and 4 trinkets. The crown, weapon, armor, and regalia can all be commissioned. Trinkets can be obtained through natural gameplay. Successful hunts will often give you a trinket. Journals can be obtained through random events, the Create Travel Itinerary decision, and the Commission Epic decision. Both of these decisions are unlocked through perks, from Wandering and Diplomacy lifestyles respectively.

In the Royal Court you will need 3 large wall ornaments, 3 small wall ornaments, 4 pedestal items, 2 furniture items, 2 books, and a throne. The throne is the hardest to obtain, so playing as Scotland in 1066 is a good idea as they start with one. Otherwise, a throne can sometimes be obtained by taking the Commission Artifact decision and picking furniture. The wall ornaments, furniture, and books can be commissioned directly, and the pedestal items can be obtained by reforging inventory artifacts.

One of a Kind
Obtain an epic Artifact from an adventurer inspiration
		Obtained a historical artifact	Start as an emperor to have the highest chances of receiving guests with inspirations and the means to finance them.

The True Royal Court
As a Vassal to an Emperor, have a higher Court Grandeur than they do
		Kingdom title
Is a vassal
Has higher Court Grandeur than the liege	Start as Qocho in the 867 start date and swear fealty to the Kirghiz Khanate, and wait for the achievement to unlock as your court gains grandeur while your liege's court loses grandeur.

They Belong in a Museum!
Appoint a Character with a completed Adventure Inspiration as your Antiquarian
		Antiquarian completed an adventure inspiration	Start as an emperor to have the highest chances of receiving guests with inspirations and the means to finance them.

Beta Israel
As a Jewish King in East Africa, diverge your Culture. May not be available for characters created in the Ruler Designer.
	Custom character	Jewish religion
Kingdom or Empire title
Has created a divergent culture
Capital province is in east Africa	Start as King of Abyssinia in any start date, gain Piety and convert to Haymanot. You can keep restarting to get the Cynical trait to make this easier. The cost of creating a divergent culture increases with Realm size, so keeping the realm small will make this easier to achieve. If the Realm is large, you can grant titles and transfer vassals to one of your vassals who isn't in your De Jure territory and grant them independence to drastically reduce the Realm size.

Bod Chen Po
As a member of the Pugyel Dynasty, re-create the Empire of Tibet
	Starting as a member of the Pugyel dynasty	Empire of Tibet	Achievable in a couple of decades as Chéchentsa Tsédé of Gugé in 1066. Restart until you get a Diplomacy education and respec perks to get True Ruler. Almost everything in the empire of Tibet can be diplomatically vassalized besides the kingdoms of Maryül and Mjinjaa. Claim Maryül as the dynasty head. To allow for more vassalization, sway the targets, and create the kingdoms that are de jure above them. Focus on wealth for faster title creation. Mjinjaa is not necessary to create the empire, but can be subjugated with a high enough level of fame; if this is the goal, prioritize prestige & fame instead of gold.

Namdé Ösung of Gugé in 867 is also viable. Be reminded that the faith Namdé Ösung follows does have the tenet "Dharmic Pacifism" which disallows you to fight holy wars. Creating a new faith with "Warmonger" instead will allow you conquests and holy wars for easier blobbing.

Delusions of Grandeur
Be at least 6 levels above your Court Grandeur Expectations
		Is 6 levels above expected Court Grandeur level	Play the Iberia in Pieces scenario as any king character and do not expand. All their courts have a grandeur expectation of 1. Display artifacts and increase court amenities.

Inspirational
Sponsor 30 successful Inspirations in one game
		Has sponsored 30 successful Inspirations	The Seljuk dynasty in 1066 offers the fastest progression.

Rise of the Ghurids
Starting as the Duke of Ghur in 867 or 1066, conquer the Region of the Historical Ghurid Empire
	Starting as Firuzkuhshah Zahhak of Ghurid in 867 or Muhammad Abbaszde of Ghurid in 1066	Completely controls the Historical Ghurid Empire region:
The following Duchies:
Within the Kingdom of Bengal:
Gauda
Varendra
Vanga
Nadia
Suhma
Within the Kingdom of Bihar:
Magadha
Tirabhukti
Kasi
Within the Kingdom of Kosala:
Kanyakubja
Saryupara
Within the Kingdom of Delhi:
Kuru
Haritanaka
Mathura
Vodamayutja
Within the Kingdom of Punjab:
Multan
Lahore
Gandhara
Within the Kingdom of Rajputana:
Maru
Jangladesh
Stravani
Ajmer
Within the Kingdom of Sindh:
Sauvira
Bhakkar
Within the Kingdom of Makran:
Makran
Jabal Kufs
Sistan
Within the Kingdom of Kabulistan:
Kabulistan
Zabulistan
Within the Kingdom of Persia:
Kirman
Within the Kingdom of Khorsan:
Merv
Ghur
Herat
Balkh
The following Counties:
Within the Kingdom of Khorsan:
Nishapur
Tus	You will need Muhammad Abbaszde (1066) for this to work. When choosing him, make sure to look at the traits, if you don't get something that boosts your stewardship and learning quit to main menu and look at him again. When satisfied with traits, replace his liege with a female character that has all the sinful traits and ones that damage fertility, make sure to decrease her skills as low as possible.

Now you may start the game. Look at your education, if it isn't stewardship - repeat the previous steps until you get it. Reroll the perks, unlock the Meritocracy perk (put the rest towards avaricious then switch to learning for the whole of body trait, if you get lucky you'll be able to do the achievement in one lifetime) and start the claim throne scheme against your liege. Once you start your claimant faction peasants will join you and she will give up the throne without fight. Kill her to inherit her titles.

Now you should completely control the duchies of Ghur and Kabulistan. Fill the building slots with money making buildings and start filling out men at arms (with at least two regiments of mangonels)

Swear fealty to the Seljuk empire and use the claim throne scheme again. Forge alliances through marriage and start a claimant faction/declare war for your claim. Naturally, your best bet would be to wait for the emperor to go to war. Siege you way to the capital one county at a time. His forces should run out of supply by the time they reach you, so your first fight should be easy even without your allies. Once you win the war, proceed to conquer the required territories as you normally would. Consider converting to Afghan culture, they have a tradition that allows the use of tribal elective law. Apply it to the two duchies and steer house unity towards antagonistic for the infinite invasion CB

True Tolerance
Rule a Realm containing at least 10 Cultures with 95% or more Cultural Acceptance
		Has at least 10 cultures in the realm with 95% or more cultural acceptance	Your culture doesn't count. Start in 867 as High Chieftain Radomil of Lusatia. Slavic cultures start 50% acceptance towards each other in 867 and Polabian culture offers the best start while also lacking the Staunch Traditionalists tradition. If you get a royal court use the Administrative court type.

Turkish Eagle
Starting as any member of House Seljuk in 1066, besides Alp Arslan, form Rum and create a Hybrid Culture between Oghuz and Greek
	House is Seljuk
Playing as Alp Arslan	Kingdom of Rum
Oghuz is a parent or ancestor of this culture
Greek is a parent or ancestor of this culture	Khuzestan offers the best start.

Alternatively, you can become an adventurer and work your way up to becoming a great conqueror. This is the fastest way to obtain an army that surpasses the Byzantine Empire, along with the Conqueror trait, which will help secure all the de jure duchies needed for the Sultanate of Rum decision.

Lingua Franca
Have all Royal Courts in the world speak your Court Language. May not be available for characters created in the Ruler Designer.
	Custom character	Royal Court
All Royal Courts have the same court language	No custom characters allowed. The most straight forward way to accomplish this is to destroy all royal courts in the game other than your own. Fast kingdom conquest can be done with the By The Sword tradition, which removes the once per lifetime restriction on kingdom level holy wars.

AI Adoption of another court's language is weighted down by being a different religious group and their court capital being outside of the same geographic region, and against the number of counties with the AI's current court language. This means that an AI whose religious group is different from yours or whose capital is outside of your capital's region will not adopt your court's language.

To keep a vassal king from changing culture to the local culture, or change an existing vassal king's culture, you can convert the culture of their capital county. The AI will switch culture to their liege's if their capital county is the same culture as their liege's. However, the AI is biased towards keeping their current court language. If after sometime the AI doesn't switch their court language to yours, revoke the kingdom title and give it to a character of your culture.

Consider starting as Charles the Bald in 867. You start with claims on three additional kingdoms held by your much weaker relatives, and once conquered you will be in a great position to take the "Restore Carolingian Borders" decision giving you a huge de jure empire (and more importantly, the Primogeniture succession law) very early on. From there, just have fun conquering!

Nobody Comes to Fika
With the County of Fika as your Primary Title, diverge your Culture and spread it to 30 Counties held by you or your Vassals
		Has created a divergent culture
At least 30 counties in the realm have the same culture	Note: The County of Fika has to be your primary title at the time you diverge your culture. After that you do not need to have the County of Fika as your primary title anymore to get the achievement. Disable AI culture hybridization and divergence in the game rules to prevent fracture of your culture by your vassals.

Pick on your weaker neighbors and diverge your culture as soon as you have the prestige, then form a duchy and just play a regular game, converting enough counties to get the achievement. Consider swearing fealty to the Duke of Kanem right away for safety and ease of expansion, since he'll create a kingdom soon after, allowing you to create a duchy yourself. Converting to the Coptic faith lets you promote your culture 50% faster in converted counties thanks to the Communal Identity tenet. Or simply reform Bori to have that tenet.

Alternatively, start as Jarl Haesteinn in 867. Immediately assign your steward to convert the County of Montaigu to Norse culture and your Godi (Realm Priest) to fabricate a claim on the County of Fika. In the mean time, use the "Conquer County" Casus Belli for the County of Melilla to secure a foothold in Africa. Next, use the "Conquer County" Casus Belli to take the County of Zammour, which grants the diplomatic range to declare war on coastal Sub-Saharan holdings. Declare another "Conquer County" war for any Sub-Saharan coastal holding of your choosing, but be careful not to lose Haesteinn's special event troops to attrition. You may now enforce your claim on the County of Fika. After taking the County of Fika and converting the County of Montaigu to Norse culture, select the title "County of Fika," and make it your primary title. Diverge the Norse culture. Once diverged, Varangian Adventure for a title of your choosing or continue as you are and complete the achievement by converting 30 counties to your culture.
