Hunting Accident
Succeed with the Murder intent while on a Hunt.
		Succeeded with the Murder intent while on a Hunt	Start a hunt and once you arrive change the intent to murder a low-intrigue participant.

A Thousand & One Nights
Orchestrate a Grand Wedding where the Spouses become Soulmates
		Orchestrated a Grand Wedding where the Spouses become Soulmates	Be one of the spouses, and set your event Intent to Seduce your betrothed.

Black Dinner
Successfully host a Murder Feast or a Bloody Wedding
		Completed a a Murder Feast or a Bloody Wedding	Create an intrigue character in Göttingen who has Elusive Shadow education with age at least 37, to have the perks to unlock the required 'Forever Infamous' perk. Start a murder feast.

Fly, My Pretty!
Finish the Falconer track in the Hunter Trait
		Finished the Falconer track in the Hunter trait	Create or play as a character of Bedouin culture. The fourth Activities legacy increases experience gain. If your hunts take a long time to start, don't invite far-away people.

Imperial March
As an Emperor, go on an Intimidation Tour visiting all of your Powerful Vassals
		Emperor title rank
Visited all powerful vassals on an Intimidation Tour	Play as Kaiser Heinrich IV of the Holy Roman Empire. He can do the tours from the start.

Lions & Tigers & Bears, Oh My!
Capture a large wild animal while on a hunt
		Captured a large wild animal while on a hunt	Once a (non-legendary) hunt starts, choose to target the lynx, bear, leopard, lion, or tiger, then choose to corner it (not ambush with bow, etc.), then choose to capture it. Without going into great detail, big cats are easier to find in African desert or Indian jungle; lynxes and bears in Europe, the steppe and Tibet. While targeting any animal, it's also possible to randomly encounter a wolf, hyena, or any of the aforesaid five animals, and with very high diplomacy, choose to befriend the animal, which will capture it if successful. Wolves and hyenas count for the achievement in the random event, but there is no option to capture them when they are intentionally targeted. The Slay Beast intent does not prevent capture opportunities.

Pathway to Heaven
With any one Character, go to Pilgrimages to all of your Holy Sites
		Went on pilgrimage to all of the faith's holy sites with the same character	You must do the pilgrimages to each holy site separately. Walking passing every holy site in one single pilgrimage does not count. Create a custom character in central Africa that follows one of the pagan religions there to have all holy sites close by. Give the character Martial Education, the Forder, Pilgrim and Hajji traits, Hausa culture, at least 21 years old and put all the remaining points into Stewardship to have the most travel speed. Take the Organized March lifestyle perk.

Sir Lance-a-Lot
Participate in a Joust with a maxed out Horse track for the Hastiluder trait
		Participated in a Joust after maxing-out the Horse Hastiluder track	The Joust event requires the Horseshoes and Arched Saddle innovations and either a capital in the Europe region, the Chivalry tradition, or the Chanson de Geste tradition. Perks in the Strategist and Gallant trees give Hastiluder experience gain. The fifth Activities legacy increases Hastiluder experience gain. Traveling gives a little Horse experience based on distance traveled. You can't have a Joust in mountains or wetlands. Your character has to be the one with the Horse track; a champion won't count.

The Grandest Tour
Visit ten Kingdom Tier Vassals on a Grand Tour
		Visited ten Kingdom Tier Vassals on a Grand Tour	Very easy to do alongside "Bod Chen Po" after you create your empire title, vassalize as much as possible in India and should allow for 10 kingdom-tier vassals for a tour.

The Very Best
Finish any track in the Hastiluder Trait
		Finish any track in the Hastiluder Trait	Perks in the Strategist and Gallant trees give Hastiluder experience gain. The fifth Activities legacy increases Hastiluder experience gain.

A.E.I.O.U. & Me
Starting as the Habsburgs, rule the Archduchy of Austria, arrange 5+ Grand Weddings, and don’t wage War
	Playing as Werner of Aargau in 1066 or Albrecht of Aargau in 1178	Rules the Archduchy of Austria
Arranged at least 5 Grand Weddings
Declared any war	Diplomacy Path: With diplomacy and piety, you can get duchy claims from the pope, petition your liege for the titles (keep liege opinion high), and rely on allies to win wars to revoke counties for a better domain. You can't petition for titles if your liege has the lowest crown authority. Alternately, become emperor and revoke or create the duchies, and ensure none are lost on succession while you lose the empire. Make sure no one from the Etichonen dynasty is elected as the emperor.

Intrigue Path: Start as Werner in Aargau, marry your son into the duchy of Austria, and become an intrigue-focused character. Murder the two sons who would inherit instead. Then, as you receive the duchy with your grandchildren, use your bishop to constantly get claims on the Steyermark duchy and petition for it from your liege. Or try to marry into the family and once again get your heir to inherit both titles.

Grand Weddings have a chance to give you a strong hook on your liege, which you need for the Archduchy of Austria decision, and the first Dynasty legacy of 'Activities' increases that chance (make sure the emperor isn't busy and will attend when planning the weddings). Alternatively, you can get the "Ritualized Friendship" tradition for your culture, and Swear Oath of True Friendship with the Emperor. Strong hooks can also sometimes be fabricated.

All wars where you are not the primary aggressor (the character who declared the war) are allowed, including tyranny wars from imprisoning or revoking, factions against you, crusades, or ally's wars.

A Knight's Tale
Have one of your Lowborn Knights win a Grand Tournament Joust, then land them
		Have one of your Lowborn Knights win a Joust, then land them.	During the downtime before the Joust event, select "Your Knights" at the bottom right, and allow only your lowborn knights to participate, while disallowing everyone else.

A True & Perfect Knight
Have a max rank Acclaimed Knight with the Warrior of the Faith Trait
		Has a max rank Accolade with the Crusader, Mujahid or Warrior of the Faith trait	Acclaimed knights gain glory per winning battle they participate in, so farming as many battles as possible through constant wars and raiding is the fastest way to reach level 6. Norse is highly recommended as they have a +20% glory bonus through cultural traditions and faith tenets, and can raid overseas to constantly fight battles without waiting to siege wargoals.

The most straightforward path for this achievement is to start as any Norse ruler in 867 and play a regular game. Create the accolade one you're a King and rconstantly raid overseas with the Adventure raid intent The side effect of this wis that you will hav bountiful wealth that you can use to keep expanding.

Option 1 - When powerful enough, conquer Rome from the pope to force Christianity into unlocking Crusades, then convert. A Crusade should be called for Jerusalem very quickly. Participate and send your armies to the war goal to give your knight the trait and get the achievement. Ensure that the Accolade always has a successor, or it will lose rank.

Option 2 - Build up enough piety from pilgrimages to form a new religion. It will need the Theocratic Clerical Tradition and Temporal Head of Faith (which will be you) doctrines, and the Armed Pilgra tenant. Then pick a victim, and declare your own Great Holy War.

Note that you do not need to win the war, but your acclaimed knight must enter the target kingdom and fight there (sieges or battles) to get the trait.

In My Element(s)
Pass through every Terrain, including naval, whilst on the same Travel
		Passed through every terrain while traveling during an activity	Create a custom character with the Pilgrim trait. When planning the activity manually add detours through each terrain type. Detours can't deviate from the optimal path too much, with a limit on additional travel time, so starting from taiga in the north or jungle in the south and ending on the opposite side of the map, while passing through Egypt for floodplains and oasis, is the easiest to plan. The two naval terrains are Sea and Coastal Sea. Example:

Start as the Chiefdom of Obran Osh in 867 with Vaishnavism (Hindu) as your faith and perform a pilgrimage to Ujjayini with the following stops:

Obran Osh - Start
Theodosia
Alexandria
Ujjayini - Destination
Ghatagaon
Rajpipla
Baqirda

This route will hit the 15 terrains on land and 2 at sea, at least once at:

Obran Osh - Taiga
Mtensk - Forest
Chally-Kala - Steppe
Or Qapi - Wetlands
Theodosia - Mountains
Black Sea - Coastal Sea
Levantine Sea - Sea
Alexandria - Oasis
Cairo - Floodplains
Quzlam - Desert
Kamboika - Plains
Ujjayini - Farmlands
Rajpipla - Jungle
Basiyan - Drylands
Baqirda - Desert Mountains
Saird - Hills
Ghatagaon - Terraced Hills

There and Back Again
Finish both Track of the Traveler Trait
		Finished both tracks of the Traveler trait	Travel until you acquire the Traveler trait. The Wanderer track is easily leveled by travelling a lot. The Seasoned track requires encountering Danger events while traveling, so ensure your Caravan Master and travel options do not make travel Safety too high, and then plan travels which make detours through provinces with appreciable Danger. It's possible to modify the route while the travel is ongoing to make further detours towards short-lived dangers like battles and sieges. Choosing the safest options in Danger events may lead to reduced or zero Seasoned experience.

The Iron and Golden King
Have a capital Barony with 60+ Income, a 500+ Stationed Heavy Cavalry Regiment, and a mine
		Has a capital Barony with 60+ Income, a 500+ size stationed Heavy Cavalry unit and a Special mine	There are 27 special building slots where mines can be built, but some are better than others. Mines have a unique mine icon on the Economy map mode. Considering terrain for buildings (for windmills, etc.), the best mine counties are Bambuk in Mali, Göttingen in Germany, Mudigonda in Andhra, Malaya in Lanka, and Bure in Mali. The ones with desert/dry terrain are the worst. Change the county capital to the holding with the mine if necessary.

The barony's income is indicated as "Tax" in the Holding view. "Monthly Income" modifiers like Greedy or Wealth Focus are irrelevant. Increase "Taxes" with buildings, high personal stewardship, Tax Offices in the duchy building slot (+15-30%), increasing Development, and Collecting Taxes with a skilled steward. You can get the Avaricious trait (+15%) and the Absolute Control perk (+10%), and be the Steward of your liege (+10% if emperor). A common event while traveling through another ruler's province with the Cattle Pastures building can give the Improved Pastures modifier (+20%) to your capital. The Domain Focus has many random events which may give holding tax modifiers. With a good county, this is possible with High Medieval tech, and trivial with Late Medieval tech.

Your Eternal Reward
As a Regent, successfully Coup your Liege and take their Realm without War or Schemes
		As a Regent, successfully Coup your Liege and take their Realm without War or Schemes	In 1066 the Fatimid Sultanate starts with a regency at 100 scales of power towards the regent. The Emir of Alexandria is the most powerful and wealthy vassal. Use the Overthrow Regent scheme on the Fatimid regent to take the regency for yourself. The Fatimid Sultanate is prone to dissolving by faction, so create or join the dissolution faction yourself so that you can prevent it from firing.

Use ruler designer to create a genius ruler with high overall stats and marry a 20+ skill wife that matches the skill of the regency mandate (Fill Coffers = Stewardship, Swell Armies = Martial, Promote Authority = Diplomacy). You will need to succeed regularly at the mandate events, in addition to using the Swings the Scales decision, to maintain Scales of Power level 6.

Given that the scales have a natural decay every year, and your liege could use the Swings the Scales decision as well, balancing your swinging, you heavily rely on the random outcome of the mandate events, making it really hard to maintain level 6. However, once you kidnap your liege, he can't swing the scales in jail, just release him and coup after the other conditions are met.

Ahab
Succeed at a Legendary Hunt
		Succeed a Legendary Hunt	Employ a Master of the Hunt with the Hunter trait and high Prowess and use the Track Legendary Game task until you get a legendary game sighting.

Like No One Ever Was
Finish all Tracks in the Hastiluder Trait
		Finished all Tracks in the Hastiluder Trait	The Activities dynasty legacy at level 5 gives a bonus to experience in the Hastiluder trait, as well as the Strategy (left branch) and Chivalry (right branch) lifestyle.

Little William Marshal
Win every Contest at a Grand Tournament with at least three Contests
		Won every Contest in a Tournament with at least three contests	If you have very high stat knights/vassals, such that they mostly crowd out others from qualifying, choose contests with one vs. one rounds (board game, duel, wrestling, joust) and you can have your subjects concede to you in every round.
